VOLTRA REMOTE
Shareable release: 2026-10-04-r17

HARDWARE
Guition JC3636K718 / JC3636K718C ESP32-S3 knob: round 360x360 display,
16 MB flash, with the board wiring described in source/README.md.
Do not install this image on an Elecrow knob or another ESP32 board.

INSTALL (no compilation needed)
1. Extract the entire ZIP into a writable folder on your computer.
2. Install Python 3.10 or newer from https://www.python.org/downloads/.
   Internet access is needed the first time for the esptool dependency.
3. Connect the knob with a USB DATA cable. On factory firmware, disable HID
   and Udisk if enabled, exit Settings to save, then restart the knob.
4. Windows: double-click Install-Windows.bat.
   macOS: double-click Install.command. If macOS blocks it, open Terminal,
   type `python3 `, drag install.py into Terminal, and press Enter.
   Linux: run `python3 install.py` in the extracted folder.
5. Select the knob's serial port and type INSTALL. The installer saves a
   full original backup, then clears saved settings and installs firmware.
   Keep the USB cable connected until installation finishes.
6. Keep the backups folder somewhere safe. Restart the knob if needed.

If the USB port is absent, try another data cable. If accessible, hold BOOT,
press/release RESET, then release BOOT to enter download mode. Serial port
names can change afterward. Close other serial monitors before installing.
Linux users need serial-device access (commonly the dialout group).

USE
Voice is active: say "Load weight" to load, or "Release weight" to unload.
No wake phrase is required. Voice can miss or falsely detect speech; keep the
trainer's physical unloading control reachable. No bottom voice text is shown.

Select a trainer, then a mode. Supported modes: Weight Training, Resistance Band,
Damper and Isokinetic. Cardio, Custom Curves and Isometric Test are excluded;
unsupported unloaded states open mode selection.
Swipe LEFT for the circular mode selector. Turn to highlight and tap the center,
or tap an outer icon. Mode changes are blocked while loaded/armed.
Turn the dial to edit the highlighted setting; wait for trainer confirmation.
Tap the main weight/maximum/factor/speed value to load or unload.
In Weight Training, select the Weight tile to use tap-to-load.
Tap the trainer name to return to device selection while unloaded.
Swipe RIGHT from controls for cable-length adjustment. Pull and hold the cable
for the trainer to save. This does not command motorized cable retraction.
The physical ring and main value dim while unloaded and brighten while loaded.
The screen uses faster partial redraws, with touch/display prioritized over speech.

CURRENT LIMITATIONS
Weight Training/modifiers display kg; Band and Isokinetic weight fields follow
the trainer's kg/lb setting. Cable length follows cm/in.
Eccentric is added weight, not percentage. See source/README.md for ranges.
Set up Twin Mode before connecting the knob and select the actual controller.
Control/Paired labels reflect the selected session, not verified physical roles.
If roles change, unload and use Switch controller. Connecting to a follower may
read values without allowing control. No fixed device identities are included.
Inter approximates the manufacturer's font; reconstructed symbols are not
manufacturer-supplied vector files. Polar Bear Strength startup logo included.
No 250 lb/accessory-limit discovery or motorized cable-retract control.
Some settings screens cannot be distinguished from their training state.
Disconnecting or powering off the knob does NOT unload the trainer.
Compare settings against the trainer during your first low-resistance trial.
The knob needs USB power; no computer or phone bridge is required after setup.

RESTORE YOUR ORIGINAL FIRMWARE
Use YOUR OWN backups/original-*.bin from this installer. From this folder:
 Windows: .installer-env\Scripts\python.exe -m esptool --chip esp32s3 --port COMx --baud 115200 write-flash 0 backups\YOUR-BACKUP.bin
 macOS/Linux: .installer-env/bin/python -m esptool --chip esp32s3 --port /dev/YOUR_PORT --baud 115200 write-flash 0 backups/YOUR-BACKUP.bin
Replace the port and backup filename. Enter download mode if required.

SOURCE / VALIDATION
Editable source, assets, licenses and build/test scripts are in source/.
The source setup script targets Apple Silicon macOS; prebuilt installation uses
Python and is designed for Windows, macOS and Linux. The installer has package
and command-path checks; Windows/Linux installation has not been hardware-tested.
Firmware was rebuilt from the supplied source; the device-control tests pass.
Use `python3 install.py --verify-only` to check files without touching a device.
Official flashing documentation:
https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esptool/en/latest/esp32s3/esptool/basic-commands.html
